AdvertisementHe helped found both The Chronicle of Higher Education and Education Week, two national publications that helped set an agenda academic agenda.By SAM ROBERTSThe 22-year-old rapper’s second album, “Beerbongs & Bentleys,” hit No. 1 with 431 million plays on digital-music services.By JOE COSCARELLIA Malaysian investor whose firm has done public relations work for Cambodia’s prime minister bought The Phnom Penh Post months before national elections.By JULIA WALLACE and MIKE IVESAcademics have scoured Facebook pages in the name of science. But the troves they’ve amassed are sometimes unsecured and now pose a privacy risk.By SHEERA FRENKELAt least one ad agency has deployed strategists to immerse themselves in swing-state cities to gain a better understanding of a broader range of consumers.By SAPNA MAHESHWARIAfter 14 of its staff members were convicted of aiding terrorism, Turkey’s leading independent newspaper went back to work. How much longer will it last?By CARLOTTA GALLAs DNA test results are shared publicly, they become a tool for talking about race, often in ways that obscure its realities.By AMANDA HESSMr. Tambor left his Emmy-winning role on “Transparent” amid harassment allegations, which a spokesman said became public after shooting for “Arrested Development” was completed.By JOHN KOBLINThe women, who filed their suit a day after a Washington Post article detailed allegations by numerous women, say the network did nothing to stop Mr. Rose.By JOHN KOBLINThanks to Tyler Perry’s studio and a flurry of big-budget movie shoots, theater performers have an easier time supporting themselves.By KELUNDRA SMITHHollywood can be isolating, but the female set of “Ocean’s 8” finally gave the stars a chance to compare notes on agents, pregnancy and more.By REGGIE UGWUChuck Plunkett, who wrote an editorial last month that called the newspaper’s hedge fund owners “vulture capitalists,” said he resigned after another critical editorial he wrote was not allowed to run.By JACK HEALYA statement by Rudolph W. Giuliani on “Hannity” was the latest agita-inducing moment for President Trump to have played out on his favorite network.By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM“Conan” on TBS will be reduced by half in 2019, as Mr. O’Brien focuses on off-site segments and courting a digital audience.By ANDREW R. CHOWDigital subscriptions were up more than 25 percent year over year, helping to offset the first quarterly decline in digital advertising since the second quarter of 2016.By JACLYN PEISERA trick of YouTube’s algorithms has led to the blossoming of hundreds of unlicensed, independent radio stations on the site, reminiscent of an age of underground broadcasts in the previous century.By JONAH ENGEL BROMWICHMr. Paul, who was with the magazine from the beginning, created its rabbit-head logo and hired great illustrators to lend worldliness to its pages.By RICHARD SANDOMIRJosh Haner, a photographer for The Times, discussed how the use of drones has changed storytelling.By THE NEW YORK TIMESTV gentrifiers are usually white and serve as comic relief. But in a new drama on Starz set in Los Angeles’s Boyle Heights, they’re Mexican-American.By ROBERT ITOThe troubled studio agreed to a deal with Lantern Capital Partners, a private equity firm, though plaintiffs suing the studio will oppose the plan.By BROOKS BARNESHe helped found both The Chronicle of Higher Education and Education Week, two national publications that helped set an agenda academic agenda.By SAM ROBERTSThe 22-year-old rapper’s second album, “Beerbongs & Bentleys,” hit No. 1 with 431 million plays on digital-music services.By JOE COSCARELLIA Malaysian investor whose firm has done public relations work for Cambodia’s prime minister bought The Phnom Penh Post months before national elections.By JULIA WALLACE and MIKE IVESAcademics have scoured Facebook pages in the name of science. But the troves they’ve amassed are sometimes unsecured and now pose a privacy risk.By SHEERA FRENKELAt least one ad agency has deployed strategists to immerse themselves in swing-state cities to gain a better understanding of a broader range of consumers.By SAPNA MAHESHWARIAfter 14 of its staff members were convicted of aiding terrorism, Turkey’s leading independent newspaper went back to work. How much longer will it last?By CARLOTTA GALLAs DNA test results are shared publicly, they become a tool for talking about race, often in ways that obscure its realities.By AMANDA HESSMr. Tambor left his Emmy-winning role on “Transparent” amid harassment allegations, which a spokesman said became public after shooting for “Arrested Development” was completed.By JOHN KOBLINThe women, who filed their suit a day after a Washington Post article detailed allegations by numerous women, say the network did nothing to stop Mr. Rose.By JOHN KOBLINThanks to Tyler Perry’s studio and a flurry of big-budget movie shoots, theater performers have an easier time supporting themselves.By KELUNDRA SMITHHollywood can be isolating, but the female set of “Ocean’s 8” finally gave the stars a chance to compare notes on agents, pregnancy and more.By REGGIE UGWUChuck Plunkett, who wrote an editorial last month that called the newspaper’s hedge fund owners “vulture capitalists,” said he resigned after another critical editorial he wrote was not allowed to run.By JACK HEALYA statement by Rudolph W. Giuliani on “Hannity” was the latest agita-inducing moment for President Trump to have played out on his favorite network.By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM“Conan” on TBS will be reduced by half in 2019, as Mr. O’Brien focuses on off-site segments and courting a digital audience.By ANDREW R. CHOWDigital subscriptions were up more than 25 percent year over year, helping to offset the first quarterly decline in digital advertising since the second quarter of 2016.By JACLYN PEISERA trick of YouTube’s algorithms has led to the blossoming of hundreds of unlicensed, independent radio stations on the site, reminiscent of an age of underground broadcasts in the previous century.By JONAH ENGEL BROMWICHMr. Paul, who was with the magazine from the beginning, created its rabbit-head logo and hired great illustrators to lend worldliness to its pages.By RICHARD SANDOMIRJosh Haner, a photographer for The Times, discussed how the use of drones has changed storytelling.By THE NEW YORK TIMESTV gentrifiers are usually white and serve as comic relief. But in a new drama on Starz set in Los Angeles’s Boyle Heights, they’re Mexican-American.By ROBERT ITOThe troubled studio agreed to a deal with Lantern Capital Partners, a private equity firm, though plaintiffs suing the studio will oppose the plan.By BROOKS BARNESGo to Home Page »