AdvertisementA call to strike by unions representing Air France employees highlights the widening divide between workers and the French state as President Emmanuel Macron pushes business-friendly changes.Top executives of the company, which was once tech’s biggest villain, are outspoken advocates for protecting user privacy and establishing ethical guidelines for new technology like artificial intelligence.The prospect of an American withdrawal from the Iran nuclear accord led to concerns about new sanctions that could further curtail global supplies.The Berkshire Hathaway C.E.O.’s three-day extravaganza — er, shareholders’ conference — drew tens of thousands of fans to Omaha.A restaurant that said it would donate proceeds to promote gun regulations drew the ire of the N.R.A., which told its members to “steer clear.”A Malaysian investor whose firm has done public relations work for Cambodia’s prime minister bought The Phnom Penh Post months before national elections.Academics have scoured Facebook pages in the name of science. But the troves they’ve amassed are sometimes unsecured and now pose a privacy risk.The I.R.S. has started sending penalty notices to businesses that failed to comply with the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate, angering Republicans and business groups.Tim Kane would seem to have the right stuff to be a G.O.P. candidate for Congress in any other year. But in 2018, he seems out of step with his party.The European Union is introducing some of the strictest online privacy rules in the world. The changes aim to give internet users more control.At least one ad agency has deployed strategists to immerse themselves in swing-state cities to gain a better understanding of a broader range of consumers.If your desktop Recycle Bin is nowhere to be found after you upgraded to Windows 10, here are some ways to get the icon back where it belongs.Researchers at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco blame it on the CME Group’s decision to list bitcoin futures, which allowed investors to bet against bitcoin.Wall Street climbed on Monday, boosted by Apple's sixth straight day of gains and by a surge in oil prices to their highest since 2014.Mr. Musk is the business world’s gleeful invader, but Mr. Buffett’s mantra of investing in businesses with “moats” remains secure.By ANDREW ROSS SORKINDrive.ai said it would start a taxi service in Texas. It was the first new rollout of autonomous cars in the United States since one operated by Uber killed a pedestrian in March.By CADE METZA tiff between Warren Buffett and Elon Musk reignited over the weekend. But the two do have common ground, and betting against either is risky.By JOHN FOLEYThe French pastry chef Maxime Pouvreau has expanded his business nationwide with his Petit Pot brand.By FLORENCE FABRICANTChristopher Kimball has joined with the Swiss company Kuhn Rikon to introduce a line of cookware.By FLORENCE FABRICANTIn an attempt to take on a nearby Whole Foods, the shop has added an “appetizing” section, started selling beer and wine by the glass and installed an espresso bar.By FLORENCE FABRICANTRecent studies have hinted at the happiness that can come from outsourcing routine tasks. But what about the pleasure of doing things for oneself?By CARL RICHARDSA new cookbook focuses on the 22-year-old canteen’s achievement: a restaurant in a department store rather than a department-store restaurant.By GINIA BELLAFANTEA major overhaul to safeguard the country’s produce is not yet in place, confounding attempts to shut down virulent strains or prevent them altogether.By JAN HOFFMANBoth Google and Microsoft will hold developers’ conferences, and the Bank of England may hold off on a rate increase as its economy slows.By THE NEW YORK TIMESAfter the White House accused China of censorship over airlines’ references to places like Hong Kong, a Chinese spokesman said the U.S. should “respect the national feelings of the Chinese people.”By CHRIS BUCKLEYThe volume of automated phone calls has skyrocketed this year over last, according to a service that tracks them, and complaints have also risen sharply.By TARA SIEGEL BERNARDSpeaking at a companywide meeting, Mark Parker signaled there might be more managerial moves in the wake of allegations of misconduct and bias against women.By KEVIN DRAPER and JULIE CRESWELLMichael Cohen’s ventures spanned taxis, a casino boat, real estate and ethanol. Many had links to the former Soviet Union. Now a federal inquiry threatens not just Mr. Cohen, but also the White House.By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM, DANNY HAKIM, BRIAN M. ROSENTHAL, EMILY FLITTER and JESSE DRUCKERWarren Buffett said he was “delighted” with Apple’s plan to repurchase $100 billion of its shares.The holiday commemorates a battlefield victory on May 5, 1862, but one expert called it a “fake holiday recently invented by beverage companies.”By CLAUDIO E. CABRERA and LOUIS LUCERO IIRegistering for perfectly matched sets of china is so last century.By ELIZABETH HOLMESAfter a reader asked about the ethics of drinking Venezuelan rum, an activist and a rum baron weigh in with sharply different views.By DANNY HAKIMMoney hasn’t made Stephen Schwarzman universally beloved. Who cares?By JACOB BERNSTEINTechnology has made it possible for just about anyone to shoot, direct and star in their own porn films. Women are leading the new guard.By MOLLY MATALON, AMANDA HESS and EVE LYONSMr. Musk is the business world’s gleeful invader, but Mr. Buffett’s mantra of investing in businesses with “moats” remains secure.By ANDREW ROSS SORKINDrive.ai said it would start a taxi service in Texas. It was the first new rollout of autonomous cars in the United States since one operated by Uber killed a pedestrian in March.By CADE METZA tiff between Warren Buffett and Elon Musk reignited over the weekend. But the two do have common ground, and betting against either is risky.By JOHN FOLEYThe French pastry chef Maxime Pouvreau has expanded his business nationwide with his Petit Pot brand.By FLORENCE FABRICANTChristopher Kimball has joined with the Swiss company Kuhn Rikon to introduce a line of cookware.By FLORENCE FABRICANTIn an attempt to take on a nearby Whole Foods, the shop has added an “appetizing” section, started selling beer and wine by the glass and installed an espresso bar.By FLORENCE FABRICANTRecent studies have hinted at the happiness that can come from outsourcing routine tasks. But what about the pleasure of doing things for oneself?By CARL RICHARDSA new cookbook focuses on the 22-year-old canteen’s achievement: a restaurant in a department store rather than a department-store restaurant.By GINIA BELLAFANTEA major overhaul to safeguard the country’s produce is not yet in place, confounding attempts to shut down virulent strains or prevent them altogether.By JAN HOFFMANBoth Google and Microsoft will hold developers’ conferences, and the Bank of England may hold off on a rate increase as its economy slows.By THE NEW YORK TIMESAfter the White House accused China of censorship over airlines’ references to places like Hong Kong, a Chinese spokesman said the U.S. should “respect the national feelings of the Chinese people.”By CHRIS BUCKLEYThe volume of automated phone calls has skyrocketed this year over last, according to a service that tracks them, and complaints have also risen sharply.By TARA SIEGEL BERNARDSpeaking at a companywide meeting, Mark Parker signaled there might be more managerial moves in the wake of allegations of misconduct and bias against women.By KEVIN DRAPER and JULIE CRESWELLMichael Cohen’s ventures spanned taxis, a casino boat, real estate and ethanol. Many had links to the former Soviet Union. Now a federal inquiry threatens not just Mr. Cohen, but also the White House.By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM, DANNY HAKIM, BRIAN M. ROSENTHAL, EMILY FLITTER and JESSE DRUCKERWarren Buffett said he was “delighted” with Apple’s plan to repurchase $100 billion of its shares.The holiday commemorates a battlefield victory on May 5, 1862, but one expert called it a “fake holiday recently invented by beverage companies.”By CLAUDIO E. CABRERA and LOUIS LUCERO IIRegistering for perfectly matched sets of china is so last century.By ELIZABETH HOLMESAfter a reader asked about the ethics of drinking Venezuelan rum, an activist and a rum baron weigh in with sharply different views.By DANNY HAKIMMoney hasn’t made Stephen Schwarzman universally beloved. Who cares?By JACOB BERNSTEINTechnology has made it possible for just about anyone to shoot, direct and star in their own porn films. Women are leading the new guard.By MOLLY MATALON, AMANDA HESS and EVE LYONSGo to Home Page »