AdvertisementSupported byIncredible comebacks, unbelievable shots and memorable performances in 2017.Jan. 29: Australian OpenHow could a Roger Federer-Rafael Nadal final come as a shock? They had played 34 times, creating one of the chummiest great rivalries in sports, but not even the rivals saw this one coming. Injuries had spoiled their 2016 seasons. Federer, 35 years old, had not played an official tournament in six months. Nadal, 30 and with a suspect left wrist, had not reached a Grand Slam final in more than two years.Long the sidekick in the rivalry, Federer went on to defeat Nadal three more times in 2017, but it would turn out to be both of their years. Each won two major titles, and they played their first doubles match together, representing Europe at the Laver Cup.They won that one, too.Feb. 5: Super Bowl LIDown 28-3 to the Atlanta Falcons midway through the third quarter, Tom Brady and the New England Patriots looked set for another deflationary moment. In the history of the Super Bowl, no team had rallied to win from a 25-point deficit, but then no franchise has had the uncanny ability to recharge its batteries like New England under the grim-faced coaching genius Bill Belichick.So much had to go right, and it did, including a catch by wide receiver Julian Edelman that came with three Falcons defending against him and the ball bouncing off legs and feet before Edelman grabbed it within an inch of the turf.“We never felt out of it,” said Brady, a Super Bowl M.V.P. once more.March 8: Champions LeagueIn any other year, the Patriots’ Super Bowl rally would have resolved any debate about the comeback of the year by February.That deficit, despite Barcelona’s exceptional strike force, should have been insurmountable. No team had overcome it in the Champions League. P.S.G. would not allow more than three goals in any other game all season.Against Barcelona, P.S.G. gave up three in the first 50 minutes before getting all the breathing space it appeared to need when Edinson Cavani scored in the 62nd minute to make it 3-1.Barcelona now needed three more goals for a total of six to advance. But somehow it still had just enough time.Neymar, who had given his team a “1 percent chance” of advancing after the first leg, scored the next two, the first at the 88th minute and the second one minute into stoppage time on a penalty kick.He then conjured the game-winner a few minutes later with a chipped pass into the P.S.G. penalty area that Sergi Roberto stabbed into the net with a lunging right-footed volley.“Ce n’est pas possible! Ce n’est pas possible!” shouted the French television commentator Stéphane Guy on Canal Plus.In theory, Guy was right.April 1: N.C.A.A. TournamentSixty points. That was the record margin of victory for the University of Connecticut when it thrashed Mississippi State, 98-38, in the round of 16 in the 2016 N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament.One year later, UConn was less experienced yet still a juggernaut: 36-0 in the regular season and riding a 111-game winning streak that dated from 2014. The Huskies looked well on their way to a fifth straight N.C.A.A. title.But for all the inequities, there is no script in sports, nothing preordained, and after hearing about and thinking about the number 60 for months, the Bulldogs used it for fuel.Oct. 10: World Cup qualifyingDespite its limitations and the doubts, the United States men’s national soccer team still needed only a tie to qualify for the 2018 World Cup.Trinidad and Tobago, already eliminated from contention, was the weakest team of the six in the final round of Concacaf regional qualifying. The United States had not missed a World Cup since 1986.At least the Americans would have illustrious company in misery. Italy did not qualify either, and the last World Cup it missed was 1958.Aug. 5: World Track and Field ChampionshipsUsain Bolt had won gold medals in world-record times. He had won them in much shakier form. But since he became an international star at the 2008 Olympics, he had never lost to any man at a global championships in a 100- or 200-meter final: His only setback was a false start that disqualified him from the 100 at the world championships in Daegu, South Korea, in 2011.Surely, Bolt would find a way in his final individual race to keep grinning all the way to the finish line in London.Gatlin, booed by the huge crowd before the race because of his history of doping suspensions, still took a knee on the red track, extended both arms and bowed to Bolt. But an era was officially over.Sept. 13: International Olympic CommitteeThe real nonevent of 2017 was Paris versus Los Angeles. The two cities were supposed to lobby it out for the right to stage the 2024 Olympics.There were hugs all around. The beleaguered I.O.C. president, Thomas Bach, could use a few.Jan. 28: Australian OpenBut the most remarkable doubles team of 2017 was the one that nobody except a very select few even knew was a doubles team.JuneDistracted sailing, in this case, paid off.May 25: N.H.L. PlayoffsJan. 1: Premier LeagueIt was Jan. 1 in Britain and the Frenchman Olivier Giroud kicked off the new year in style.His backheel pass helped start a counterattack by Arsenal against Crystal Palace. Giroud then sprinted 70 meters and was in not quite the ideal spot for Alexis Sanchez’s cross. With the ball behind him, Giroud reached back with his left foot and volleyed the ball with his heel into the upper left corner of the net.It was a scorpion kick to savor, and it had taken less than 24 hours of 2017 to determine the goal of the year.May 12: Madrid OpenPablo Cuevas will likely never win a Grand Slam title or reach No. 1, but the flashy Uruguayan will always have the second game of the second set of his quarterfinal at the Madrid Open.The opponent was the young and uber-talented German, Alexander Zverev, who was up a set and serving at 0-1. The rally was a typical clay-court tussle with the men trading drop shots and Zverev hitting a backhand lob volley that sent Cuevas scurrying back to the baseline.A tweener, a shot between the legs, would have been Cuevas’s logical next move. Instead, he produced something much more original with his back to the net: a no-look flick with a backhand grip that zipped past the stunned Zverev for a winner.Cuevas came back to win the match, but that is not what sticks with you.Nov. 26: N.F.L.Oct. 24: Thailand U-18 CupThe Thailand U-18 cup semifinal in October had gone to penalty kicks, and it was 19-19 when a player for Bangkok Sports Club shot with his left foot and hit the crossbar. The ball rebounded high in the air.As the shooter put his hands to his face, the goalkeeper for Satri Angthong raced toward his teammates, punching the air exultantly. But then the ball finally bounced. With the backspin, it headed toward the goal and bounced again and then once more before crossing the unguarded goal line with Satri’s keeper giving chase too late but just in time to become a global cautionary tale.June 25: Travelers ChampionshipBut for dramatic flourishes, there was no topping Spieth’s final shot of the Travelers Championship in June in Cromwell, Conn. On the first hole of a playoff with Daniel Berger after letting a lead slip during regulation play, Spieth hit his second shot into a bunker while Berger found the edge of the green on the par-4 18th.Realistically, Spieth had to get up and down and make par to keep his chances alive. He did better than that. After blasting out of the sand, his ball bounced three times and then rolled into the cup.After Spieth’s airborne back-to-chest bump with the caddie Michael Greller was complete, Berger missed his long birdie putt.Berger’s conclusion: “Jordan does Jordan things.”March: Eagles Landing Middle SchoolJamarion Styles lost his hands and most of both arms to a bacterial infection before his first birthday. That has not kept him from playing basketball. After joining the team at Eagles Landing Middle School in Boca Raton, Fla., Styles, now 13, made two three-pointers to finish off one of his team’s victories in March.Video of the shots went viral and hopefully the message of resilience did, too.“I don’t need them,” he answered.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS