AdvertisementAn illness ended Tucker Halpern’s basketball career, but eight months in bed led him down a career path he didn’t expect: into music, as part of the dance pop duo Sofi Tukker.By JOE DRAPECondoleezza Rice and her commission have ideas for cleaning up college basketball. But they don’t challenge the longtime requirement that the players be amateurs.By MARC TRACYBazley, a top high school prospect, is set to skip college for the N.B.A.’s development league. More players like him might follow in his footsteps.By ADAM ZAGORIAThe scope of the college basketball recruitment corruption scandal grew, with prosecutors saying that money was funneled to players who went to Kansas and N.C. State.By MARC TRACY and JOE DRAPEWhat makes Villanova the class of college basketball is a sustainable model of success that draws top players who sacrifice to play for the Wildcats.By MARC TRACYEvery year, Marc Tracy goes into the men’s N.C.A.A. tournament with a handful of ideas and narratives. Then events blow them up.By MARC TRACYBehind the hot shooting of Donte DiVincenzo, the Wildcats concluded their dominant run through the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament.By ZACH SCHONBRUNOgunbowale hit a 3-pointer with 0.1 of a second left to give the Irish its first championship since 2001.By JERÉ LONGMANThe current game has lost some of its majesty and innocence. But no matter how hard the adults try to spoil it, they cannot. There’s too much magic.By JOE DRAPEIt’s not quite David vs. Goliath, but Villanova should be considered a strong favorite over Michigan. Here’s how they match up.By MARC TRACYThe Wildcats, who won the national title in 2016, beat Kansas on Saturday night with a barrage of 3-pointers.By ZACH SCHONBRUNLed by Moritz Wagner, the Wolverines beat the enthralling underdogs from Loyola to advance to the N.C.A.A. men’s championship game.By MARC TRACYMississippi State did the unthinkable last year, beating UConn with a late jumper in the national semifinals. Notre Dame did it this year. On Sunday, they’ll meet in this year’s final.By JERÉ LONGMANThe Irish have now beaten UConn, the juggernaut of women’s basketball, four times in the national semifinals since 2001.By JERÉ LONGMANThe Bulldogs, who defeated UConn in last year’s Final Four, beat Louisville in overtime on Friday night after tying the score with a late 3-pointer in regulation.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMichigan faces Loyola-Chicago in Saturday’s first semifinal, and two No. 1 seeds, Villanova and Kansas, meet in the second.By MARC TRACY and ZACH SCHONBRUNMaguire University has attended every Final Four weekend since 1963. That’s pretty good for a school that doesn’t exist.By ZACH SCHONBRUNPorter Moser denies he was behind the disappearance of a rival coach’s sport coat during a game years ago, but the tale of what became of it might make Sister Jean blush.By DAVID WALDSTEINBefore it won its only N.C.A.A. championship in 1963, it played the “Game of Change,” sending out an integrated team to face an all-white one from Mississippi State.By VICTOR MATHERAs UConn storms into its 11th straight Final Four, its coach and its opponents push back on the recurring grumble that the Huskies’ success is bad for women’s basketball.By JERÉ LONGMANGet the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.An illness ended Tucker Halpern’s basketball career, but eight months in bed led him down a career path he didn’t expect: into music, as part of the dance pop duo Sofi Tukker.By JOE DRAPECondoleezza Rice and her commission have ideas for cleaning up college basketball. But they don’t challenge the longtime requirement that the players be amateurs.By MARC TRACYBazley, a top high school prospect, is set to skip college for the N.B.A.’s development league. More players like him might follow in his footsteps.By ADAM ZAGORIAThe scope of the college basketball recruitment corruption scandal grew, with prosecutors saying that money was funneled to players who went to Kansas and N.C. State.By MARC TRACY and JOE DRAPEWhat makes Villanova the class of college basketball is a sustainable model of success that draws top players who sacrifice to play for the Wildcats.By MARC TRACYEvery year, Marc Tracy goes into the men’s N.C.A.A. tournament with a handful of ideas and narratives. Then events blow them up.By MARC TRACYBehind the hot shooting of Donte DiVincenzo, the Wildcats concluded their dominant run through the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament.By ZACH SCHONBRUNOgunbowale hit a 3-pointer with 0.1 of a second left to give the Irish its first championship since 2001.By JERÉ LONGMANThe current game has lost some of its majesty and innocence. But no matter how hard the adults try to spoil it, they cannot. There’s too much magic.By JOE DRAPEIt’s not quite David vs. Goliath, but Villanova should be considered a strong favorite over Michigan. Here’s how they match up.By MARC TRACYThe Wildcats, who won the national title in 2016, beat Kansas on Saturday night with a barrage of 3-pointers.By ZACH SCHONBRUNLed by Moritz Wagner, the Wolverines beat the enthralling underdogs from Loyola to advance to the N.C.A.A. men’s championship game.By MARC TRACYMississippi State did the unthinkable last year, beating UConn with a late jumper in the national semifinals. Notre Dame did it this year. On Sunday, they’ll meet in this year’s final.By JERÉ LONGMANThe Irish have now beaten UConn, the juggernaut of women’s basketball, four times in the national semifinals since 2001.By JERÉ LONGMANThe Bulldogs, who defeated UConn in last year’s Final Four, beat Louisville in overtime on Friday night after tying the score with a late 3-pointer in regulation.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSMichigan faces Loyola-Chicago in Saturday’s first semifinal, and two No. 1 seeds, Villanova and Kansas, meet in the second.By MARC TRACY and ZACH SCHONBRUNMaguire University has attended every Final Four weekend since 1963. That’s pretty good for a school that doesn’t exist.By ZACH SCHONBRUNPorter Moser denies he was behind the disappearance of a rival coach’s sport coat during a game years ago, but the tale of what became of it might make Sister Jean blush.By DAVID WALDSTEINBefore it won its only N.C.A.A. championship in 1963, it played the “Game of Change,” sending out an integrated team to face an all-white one from Mississippi State.By VICTOR MATHERAs UConn storms into its 11th straight Final Four, its coach and its opponents push back on the recurring grumble that the Huskies’ success is bad for women’s basketball.By JERÉ LONGMANGo to Home Page »