AdvertisementReid, a free agent safety, says the league has blackballed him for his protests during the national anthem.By VICTOR MATHERWitten, 35, was an ironman at tight end, playing 15 games in his rookie season, and 16 every season thereafter.By VICTOR MATHERMen were granted up-close access to photo shoots on the beach when the women were nude, the cheerleaders said.By JULIET MACURHis move follows Colin Kaepernick’s claim that owners have colluded to keep him out of the league because of his kneeling during the national anthem.By VICTOR MATHERIt’s the round for the “good but not great” and the “project.” There aren’t many superstars found here, but every once in a while it produces a gem.By VICTOR MATHERGriffin, a linebacker whose left hand was amputated when he was young, had become one of the most popular players in the draft because of his perseverance and personality.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSDarnold is tasked with helping lift a franchise that has been seeking a savior since the days of Joe Namath. He also has to live up to some family history.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSThe player your team took is great. Or maybe he isn’t.By VICTOR MATHERThe event outgrew a hotel ballroom and Radio City, and New York itself. Now it’s the biggest off-season event and a traveling roadshow.By KEN BELSONMayfield was the first of four quarterbacks taken in the top 10 spots, and will be asked to help turn around a hapless Cleveland franchise.By MARC TRACYUnder General Manager Dave Gettleman, the Giants took a running back, while the Jets once again tried to solidify their rebuild with a quarterback.By BEN SHPIGELThe Browns took a quarterback with the first pick of Round 1, and the Ravens took a quarterback with the last pick of Round 1. Here’s what happened.By BENJAMIN HOFFMANRemember “Draft Day,” starring Kevin Costner? Here’s what the film got right about football’s drama-filled night.By VICTOR MATHER— Patriots owner Robert Kraft​By KEN BELSONRunning backs used to be the top prizes in the N.F.L. draft. Now they aren’t. Barkley, a Penn State rusher, wants to change that.By MARC TRACYNo matter how the Giants and the Jets proceed with their first-round picks on Thursday, their decisions will be inexorably linked and endlessly compared.By BEN SHPIGEL“I understand that they could meet with us, patronize us and do nothing in the end,” their lawyer says.By JOHN BRANCHHere are the key picks of some of the more prominent selectors. Barring trades, the top teams right now are the Browns, Giants, Jets and Broncos.By VICTOR MATHERIn a private meeting, the owner of the Eagles called Mr. Trump’s tenure a “disastrous presidency,” using a vulgarity to emphasize “disastrous.”By KEN BELSON and MICHAEL D. SHEARThe former N.F.L. quarterback, who protested police brutality by kneeling during the national anthem, received Amnesty International’s Ambassador of Conscience Award.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGet the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.Reid, a free agent safety, says the league has blackballed him for his protests during the national anthem.By VICTOR MATHERWitten, 35, was an ironman at tight end, playing 15 games in his rookie season, and 16 every season thereafter.By VICTOR MATHERMen were granted up-close access to photo shoots on the beach when the women were nude, the cheerleaders said.By JULIET MACURHis move follows Colin Kaepernick’s claim that owners have colluded to keep him out of the league because of his kneeling during the national anthem.By VICTOR MATHERIt’s the round for the “good but not great” and the “project.” There aren’t many superstars found here, but every once in a while it produces a gem.By VICTOR MATHERGriffin, a linebacker whose left hand was amputated when he was young, had become one of the most popular players in the draft because of his perseverance and personality.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSDarnold is tasked with helping lift a franchise that has been seeking a savior since the days of Joe Namath. He also has to live up to some family history.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSThe player your team took is great. Or maybe he isn’t.By VICTOR MATHERThe event outgrew a hotel ballroom and Radio City, and New York itself. Now it’s the biggest off-season event and a traveling roadshow.By KEN BELSONMayfield was the first of four quarterbacks taken in the top 10 spots, and will be asked to help turn around a hapless Cleveland franchise.By MARC TRACYUnder General Manager Dave Gettleman, the Giants took a running back, while the Jets once again tried to solidify their rebuild with a quarterback.By BEN SHPIGELThe Browns took a quarterback with the first pick of Round 1, and the Ravens took a quarterback with the last pick of Round 1. Here’s what happened.By BENJAMIN HOFFMANRemember “Draft Day,” starring Kevin Costner? Here’s what the film got right about football’s drama-filled night.By VICTOR MATHER— Patriots owner Robert Kraft​By KEN BELSONRunning backs used to be the top prizes in the N.F.L. draft. Now they aren’t. Barkley, a Penn State rusher, wants to change that.By MARC TRACYNo matter how the Giants and the Jets proceed with their first-round picks on Thursday, their decisions will be inexorably linked and endlessly compared.By BEN SHPIGEL“I understand that they could meet with us, patronize us and do nothing in the end,” their lawyer says.By JOHN BRANCHHere are the key picks of some of the more prominent selectors. Barring trades, the top teams right now are the Browns, Giants, Jets and Broncos.By VICTOR MATHERIn a private meeting, the owner of the Eagles called Mr. Trump’s tenure a “disastrous presidency,” using a vulgarity to emphasize “disastrous.”By KEN BELSON and MICHAEL D. SHEARThe former N.F.L. quarterback, who protested police brutality by kneeling during the national anthem, received Amnesty International’s Ambassador of Conscience Award.By THE ASSOCIATED PRESSGo to Home Page »