AdvertisementSupported bySportingThe electric talent Sloane Stephens, a player just now coming into her own after having her career nearly wrecked by injuries, won the U.S. Open women’s tournament last week. But let’s not kid ourselves: The real winner of this year’s tournament was Serena Williams.Surely, this is a step forward from years past, when female athletes had to end their careers for childbirth or were discouraged from playing when pregnant. Motherhood is now even part of female athletes’ heartwarming hero narratives, like Kim Clijsters and Lindsay Davenport in tennis, and the married W.N.B.A. players DeWanna Bonner and Candice Dupree, who are raising twin daughters together despite being on different teams.In this area — the recognition of a full life off the playing field, the acceptance that our athletes don’t materialize out of thin air when they step on the field — male athletes fall short of their female counterparts. They remain stat-generating robots who exist solely to make our teams win: Their off-field lives aren’t just irrelevant to us, they’re annoying distractions from what really matters.Emotional states in male athletes can even be mostly ignored or given more “comfortable” explanations. Stephen Piscotty, a right fielder for my beloved St. Louis Cardinals, has had a disappointing year at the plate. A logical reason for this might be that early in the season his mother was told she had A.L.S. But Piscotty’s struggles have not been attributed to that. Instead, “his timing is off” or “he’s just having one of those years” is the preferred nomenclature.And compare, say, Novak Djokovic and Venus Williams. Djokovic, one of the best tennis players of all time, has had the worst year of his career, falling below No. 2 in the rankings for the first time since 2011 and prompting John McEnroe to question his desire. He left the tour in July to rest his elbow and “spend quality time” with his family.At the U.S. Open, commentators kept telling me that Venus Williams was playing great tennis because she was inspired by her sister’s having a child. I think she was playing at that level because she’s one of the greatest athletes on the planet and has the competitive streak to match.When I hear a commentator note that a male athlete is affected in any possible way by his sister’s having a child somewhere thousands of miles away, it will be a first. This disparity is ultimately infantilizing of female athletes, patting them on the head for off-field stories, as if their on-court accomplishments aren’t enough. And while we can’t stop talking about Venus Williams’s off-court life, we rarely think to ask about Novak Djokovic’s.We’d rather our male athletes not have emotional lives, but if they have to have them, we’d rather not know about it.But there is much evidence that that is changing: Women’s tennis television ratings are often better than men’s, the United States women’s soccer team got the highest ratings in American soccer history in 2015, and the W.N.B.A. finals notched their highest ratings last year. Women’s sports are more popular than they have ever been, and that growth continues exponentially.Which points to a potential evolution in attitudes. It’s not difficult to imagine a time when this odd condescension ends and male sports fans are just as unreasonable about Serena Williams’s taking time off to have a child as they are when a male athlete does the same for his child’s birth. Don’t mess up their fantasy tennis teams, Serena. Progress expresses itself in the strangest ways sometimes.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS