AdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundPulling up stakes and leaving behind family have been recurring themes in Mariama Toe’s life.“I became a master of packing my stuff,” Ms. Toe, 24, said recently. “I knew you never get comfortable because you have to leave.”When she was 6, Ms. Toe came to the United States from Accra, Ghana, seeking a better life with her father’s girlfriend, Marie Yawo, and Ms. Yawo’s three daughters. They settled on Staten Island. Ms. Toe’s mother was not in the picture, and her father had assured her that he would join her eventually. He has not come, but when Ms. Toe talks to him occasionally, he tells her that he will one day.Ms. Toe said Ms. Yawo became like a mother to her. They were inseparable until 2004, Ms. Toe said, when Ms. Yawo fell ill with cancer. The family was scattered when she could no longer care for the girls. Ms. Toe and one of the daughters went to live with relatives in Rhode Island; the other sisters were taken elsewhere. Ms. Yawo died later that year, causing Ms. Toe to become timorous.“I would be scared to sleep,” she said. “I didn’t know if she’s going to appear to me because she left so suddenly.”Once again, Ms. Toe was displaced. She and the three girls she had come to think of as her sisters returned to Staten Island, this time in the care of a relative of theirs who Ms. Toe said made her feel like an outsider.“I quickly started detaching myself,” she said. “I started looking elsewhere for family and love because I didn’t get it where I was supposed to get it.”Her years in junior high school were marked by depression and fights, waged on behalf of friends who were being bullied, she said. Ms. Toe began receiving counseling services that resulted in her being placed in foster care. That was an improvement, Ms. Toe said, but she still felt alone.At 15, she became pregnant. Ms. Toe said she knew she was too young and fragile to be a mother, so she had an abortion. She had been unable to bear the thought that her child could end up in the foster care system, too. She confided in no one.“A lot of people didn’t know I was hurting,” Ms. Toe said. “I smiled through everything. I was good at playing off the pain, and then crying in my own corner.”Ms. Toe left foster care at 17, as the agency she was with closed; a month later, she dropped out of school. Ms. Toe then moved into the Staten Island home of a former neighbor, Lakema Freeland, a mother of three who in the past had helped her earn money caring for children.“I developed a different kind of love for her because she took me in,” Ms. Toe said. “She didn’t have to.”Their strong bond was cemented when Ms. Freeland became Ms. Toe’s legal guardian. In 2011, Ms. Freeland sponsored Ms. Toe, allowing her to acquire a green card. She also played a pivotal role in getting her to return to school.“She kind of pushed me,” Ms. Toe said. “She said: ‘You can’t sit here and do nothing. You can’t be a bum.’”Once again, Ms. Freeland urged her to continue her education. “She needed that extra hug and a little push,” Ms. Freeland said.This past August, Ms. Toe started her first semester at Buffalo State, part of the State University of New York, entering as a junior. That month, Children’s Aid used $250 from the fund for Target gift cards so Ms. Toe could buy necessities for her dorm room. The college covers her tuition in full.Ms. Toe is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in education but plans to switch to psychology. Drawing meaning from her troubled youth, she said she would like to become a guidance counselor, working with children who face struggles like those she has overcome.“I feel like I can help guide a child better if I can talk to them more on a personal level and a one-on-one level,” she said.She and Ms. Freeland have discussed running a day care center together one day. Ms. Toe also envisions opening another business, one that would serve those in the foster care and juvenile justice systems and help youths with mental health issues. It would be a safe haven for children in trouble, Ms. Toe said, but they should be prepared to be pushed in the right direction, just as Ms. Freeland pushed her.“I know I’m going to be one of those people who goes, ‘You can’t just sit here,’ ” Ms. Toe said.While in college, she is working overnight shifts at a call center up to 35 hours a week in an effort to pay down some credit card debt. Ms. Toe says she wants to be a positive example to Ms. Freeland’s adolescent and teenage children, to show that anything is possible, that anything can be overcome.“No two days are alike,” she said. “Even if it looks like things aren’t getting better and you go, ‘My God, I’m going through this again,’ it’s different from what it was the day before. I used that to get through some of my deep, dark times.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS