reign governments to legalize sports betting could boost local economies, increase state revenues, and better protect both consumers and the industry, with Nevada showing the way.DINA TITUS, LAS VEGASTo the Editor:It is infuriating to me that most Americans can legally bet on the future price of soybeans or a company’s future profits, but not a sporting event.CHRIS BENNETT, MINNEAPOLISThe writer formerly worked in a sportsbook in Las Vegas.To the Editor:Generally I believe that governments should not be in the business of protecting adult citizens from themselves. But there are exceptions, and gambling is one of them. Gambling destroys people, devastates families and has no redeeming qualities.So, no, don’t legalize sports betting. In fact, it’s high time we as a society banned all gambling, including casinos and state lotteries. It’s time to end states’ addiction to gambling revenue, which is nothing more than a tax on the poor.And it’s high time we cracked down on online gambling. We can levy large fines against violators and use the money to fund enforcement, offset state revenue losses, and train laid-off casino employees for desperately needed and much more productive infrastructure work.LAWRENCE REICHARD, BELFAST, ME.To the Editor:It’s hard to believe that this argument is still going on. When it’s clear that people will do a certain thing — and this runs the gamut from betting through drugs and liquor — we need to stop criminalizing the behavior and find ways to make it fairer, safer and cleaner.One would think that Prohibition was the ultimate lesson in this regard. Wasn’t anyone paying attention?Recognizing that a behavior is inevitable at some level is not the same as condoning it. Making people who do these things into criminals doesn’t benefit anyone. Educate young people about the dangers, write some rules, set some limits and collect the taxes that will benefit communities and fund treatment centers when a “user” requires that.ANNE KELLEY, SAN FRANCISCOTo the Editor:In all honesty, who cares, and what difference would it make anyway? Anti-gambling laws are completely unenforced, and no one i