AdvertisementWorld powers have been lobbying the president to remain in the 2015 agreement that the Trump administration has threatened to jettison since taking office.George T. Conway III has for months seemed to publicly question decisions made by a chaotic White House in which his wife, Kellyanne Conway, holds a central role.The president tweeted that Don Blankenship’s opponents have a better chance of beating the incumbent Democratic senator, Joe Manchin.The president’s new lawyer appeared on television Sunday morning in an attempt to clarify comments he made last week about payments to Stormy Daniels.Mr. Stone, a veteran political operative, made the comments in an interview in response to a CNBC report that the special counsel was scrutinizing the ties between the men.By MAGGIE HABERMANAs she prepares for her confirmation hearing, President Trump’s nominee to lead the spy agency faces questions about her involvement in torture and secret prisons.By PETER BAKER and MATTHEW ROSENBERGRepublicans in Washington, including President Trump, are encouraging West Virginians not to vote for Don Blankenship, a popular Senate candidate with a complicated past.By SARAH STEIN KERR and NATALIE RENEAUThe E.P.A. chief has cited the memos to justify costly round-the-clock security, which has attracted criticism and scrutiny.By ERIC LIPTON and KENNETH P. VOGELPresident Trump suggested that John Kerry, the former secretary of state, violated the Logan Act, a 1799 law that no one has ever been prosecuted under.By LINDA QIUEmails and other documents obtained from the Environmental Protection Agency show how determined Mr. Pruitt has been to keep the news media and the public at a distance.By ERIC LIPTONMrs. Trump unveiled a program on Monday that she said would tackle opioid abuse, social media pressures and mental health issues among young people.By KATIE ROGERSThe president suggested that investigators were “getting caught.” But the F.B.I. officials left voluntarily and were not involved with the Russia inquiry when they resigned.By LINDA QIUThe crackdown follows a rise in families and children who have illegally entered the United States over the last year.By MIRIAM JORDAN and RON NIXONThe veiled threat to the special counsel leading the inquiry comes at a time when Mr. Trump’s legal team appears to be struggling to present a consistent message to the American public.By EILEEN SULLIVANAttorney General Jeff Sessions’s aggressive enforcement has set off a debate about whether his approach is the most effective way to fight gun crimes.By ALI WATKINSGina Haspel offered to withdraw her nomination to run the C.I.A. if her past role in the brutal interrogation of an Al Qaeda suspect threatened to tarnish the agency.By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and MARK LANDLERInspections to confirm that North Korea had shut down its nuclear program and secure its arms would be far more onerous than those in Iran under a current deal that President Trump wants to end.By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROADThe I.R.S. has started sending penalty notices to businesses that failed to comply with the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate, angering Republicans and business groups.By ALAN RAPPEPORTTim Kane would seem to have the right stuff to be a G.O.P. candidate for Congress in any other year. But in 2018, he seems out of step with his party.By BEN CASSELMANA restaurant that said it would donate proceeds to promote gun regulations drew the ire of the N.R.A., which told its members to “steer clear.”By CHRISTINA CARONAfter the White House accused China of censorship over airlines’ references to places like Hong Kong, a Chinese spokesman said the U.S. should “respect the national feelings of the Chinese people.”By CHRIS BUCKLEYPresident Trump will lay out a plan this month to make good on his promise to lower prescription prices. Drug companies are ready to resist.By ROBERT PEARDespite a detour to topics like trade and immigration, the president largely stuck to the script after a week of speaking off the cuff.By MARK LANDLERMr. McCain urged former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to “not walk away” from politics, and said he wished he had chosen Joseph I. Lieberman, not Sarah Palin, as his running mate in 2008.By JONATHAN MARTINSubscribe for updates on the White House and Congress, delivered to your inbox Monday - Friday.Mr. Stone, a veteran political operative, made the comments in an interview in response to a CNBC report that the special counsel was scrutinizing the ties between the men.By MAGGIE HABERMANAs she prepares for her confirmation hearing, President Trump’s nominee to lead the spy agency faces questions about her involvement in torture and secret prisons.By PETER BAKER and MATTHEW ROSENBERGRepublicans in Washington, including President Trump, are encouraging West Virginians not to vote for Don Blankenship, a popular Senate candidate with a complicated past.By SARAH STEIN KERR and NATALIE RENEAUThe E.P.A. chief has cited the memos to justify costly round-the-clock security, which has attracted criticism and scrutiny.By ERIC LIPTON and KENNETH P. VOGELPresident Trump suggested that John Kerry, the former secretary of state, violated the Logan Act, a 1799 law that no one has ever been prosecuted under.By LINDA QIUEmails and other documents obtained from the Environmental Protection Agency show how determined Mr. Pruitt has been to keep the news media and the public at a distance.By ERIC LIPTONMrs. Trump unveiled a program on Monday that she said would tackle opioid abuse, social media pressures and mental health issues among young people.By KATIE ROGERSThe president suggested that investigators were “getting caught.” But the F.B.I. officials left voluntarily and were not involved with the Russia inquiry when they resigned.By LINDA QIUThe crackdown follows a rise in families and children who have illegally entered the United States over the last year.By MIRIAM JORDAN and RON NIXONThe veiled threat to the special counsel leading the inquiry comes at a time when Mr. Trump’s legal team appears to be struggling to present a consistent message to the American public.By EILEEN SULLIVANAttorney General Jeff Sessions’s aggressive enforcement has set off a debate about whether his approach is the most effective way to fight gun crimes.By ALI WATKINSGina Haspel offered to withdraw her nomination to run the C.I.A. if her past role in the brutal interrogation of an Al Qaeda suspect threatened to tarnish the agency.By MATTHEW ROSENBERG and MARK LANDLERInspections to confirm that North Korea had shut down its nuclear program and secure its arms would be far more onerous than those in Iran under a current deal that President Trump wants to end.By DAVID E. SANGER and WILLIAM J. BROADThe I.R.S. has started sending penalty notices to businesses that failed to comply with the Affordable Care Act’s employer mandate, angering Republicans and business groups.By ALAN RAPPEPORTTim Kane would seem to have the right stuff to be a G.O.P. candidate for Congress in any other year. But in 2018, he seems out of step with his party.By BEN CASSELMANA restaurant that said it would donate proceeds to promote gun regulations drew the ire of the N.R.A., which told its members to “steer clear.”By CHRISTINA CARONAfter the White House accused China of censorship over airlines’ references to places like Hong Kong, a Chinese spokesman said the U.S. should “respect the national feelings of the Chinese people.”By CHRIS BUCKLEYPresident Trump will lay out a plan this month to make good on his promise to lower prescription prices. Drug companies are ready to resist.By ROBERT PEARDespite a detour to topics like trade and immigration, the president largely stuck to the script after a week of speaking off the cuff.By MARK LANDLERMr. McCain urged former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to “not walk away” from politics, and said he wished he had chosen Joseph I. Lieberman, not Sarah Palin, as his running mate in 2008.By JONATHAN MARTINGo to Home Page »