AdvertisementSupported byOpinionAS four newly Senate-approved federal appellate judges move into their chambers seven months after Neil Gorsuch joined the Supreme Court, they may seem to have vindicated conservatives who swallowed their qualms about Donald Trump last year out of a conviction that, whatever his flaws, he would save the judiciary.Conservatives did not always hold the judiciary in such awe. Judge Robert Bork, whose nomination to the Supreme Court the Senate rejected three decades ago, became a martyr to the cause of originalism because he believed in the courts’ demotion in the constitutional scheme from the inflated role they had assumed under Chief Justice Earl Warren. Using the same reasoning, Mr. Bork also criticized conservative judges of earlier generations, like those who overruled economic reforms in the Progressive Era.Now, however, as a constitutional matter, deference to the judiciary unites a broad coalition of right and left, which dispute how, not whether, the judiciary should exercise a far-reaching power to overrule the people’s elected representatives. Liberals have long argued in favor of an extensive understanding of individual rights, especially on issues such as privacy, a stance to which Mr. Bork’s judicial modesty was a correction. Originalism is a diverse movement that consists of both opponents and supporters of Mr. Trump’s election. Many of them still support a deferential judiciary, but growing numbers seek control of the courts to promote conservative ends.The “but the courts” argument for voting for Mr. Trump percolated largely from grass-roots quarters, among religious conservatives in particular — where one would have expected the most hostility to Mr. Trump. Deflating the power of the judiciary might help to normalize our politics and help restore the primacy of considerations like policy and character in the choice of public officials.What makes judges different today, so much so that “but the courts” conservatives were willing to forgo other important principles to attain the judiciary? Obtaining life tenure for your allies is only a worthwhile bargain if conservatives believe the courts are substantially more powerful in the long run than the elected branches are in the medium term. If that’s true, then something is constitutionally awry: Judges are affecting life in America more than elected officials. There are, of course, other reasons for thoughtful conservatives to have supported Mr. Trump. That so many were swayed by the “but the courts” defense alone despite their myriad concerns about Mr. Trump is compelling evidence that the judiciary has grown independent of heaven itself.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS