AdvertisementSupported byThat the mayor has not yet made a choice — he said the administration had already been searching for several months in late December — points to the challenge of finding a match between a politically ambitious mayor with close ties to the teachers’ union and a candidate with the requisite managerial skill and national reputation.Ms. Fariña remains in the job and will leave “in the next month or so,” the mayor’s press secretary, Eric Phillips, said last week.She is under consideration by the de Blasio team, according to someone informed about the search who requested anonymity to speak about confidential conversations.Dr. Jenkins did not respond to an email and a phone call.A spokeswoman for the state education department said that Ms. Elia “has had no discussions about this.”Dr. Cashin said she has not been interviewed.Under Mr. de Blasio’s predecessor, Michael R. Bloomberg, the city was recognized as a hotbed of education reform, a front-runner in the push to use data, especially test scores, to evaluate schools, principals and teachers. Mr. Bloomberg’s schools chancellor, Joel Klein, began giving schools letter grades and pioneered the practice of closing low-performing schools and replacing them with new schools on a large scale.During his first campaign, Mr. de Blasio promised to de-emphasize test scores, end the school grading system and put a pause on closures. He has kept those promises. The Bloomberg administration fought with the teachers’ union; Mr. de Blasio was endorsed by it.Ms. Fariña has focused on strategies like reforming school discipline, encouraging teacher collaboration and putting social services in schools. Mr. de Blasio’s biggest success has come in expanding prekindergarten for all children, and the education department has used the idea of equity across schools to add algebra in more middle schools and increase access to Advanced Placement courses. It now offers the SAT free to all high school students.While critics see the de Blasio administration’s efforts as small-bore, supporters say that this work can make a big difference.For the next chancellor, Ms. Guastaferro said, “The opportunity is to take the ideas that are in play now and to take them to the next level.”But the system remains sharply segregated, with seemingly intractable achievement gaps and little action by the administration to push for integration.Mr. de Blasio’s search committee is made up of insiders from City Hall and the Education Department. Mr. de Blasio has pledged not to choose someone from outside education, as Mr. Bloomberg did twice, and the committee is focusing on people who have previously run urban districts. Given the makeup of the city’s schools, which are nearly 70 percent black and Hispanic, many expect a new chancellor who looks like the student body.Making things harder, the job is relatively low paid. Ms. Fariña’s current salary is $234,569. The superintendent in Los Angeles, the nation’s second largest district with more than 640,000 students, makes $350,000.Asked through a spokeswoman whether he had been interviewed for the job, Dr. Adams declined to comment.Mr. Phillips, the mayor’s spokesman, said on Wednesday that Mr. de Blasio would make a decision soon.He said that New York was due now for another outsider, if perhaps one less confrontational than Mr. Klein. What is needed, Dr. Hill said, is “somebody that thinks about the system as a system.”AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS