AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorCompanies are wrestling with how to allocate the windfall from the recent tax act. It’s a nice problem to have.Neglected in the public discussion is yet another strategy, with large potential benefits for every company and for the nation as a whole: investing in human capital. Lost in the noise was Boeing’s announcement that it will spend $100 million on work force development, training and education, and Disney’s investment of $50 million to cover tuition payments for its hourly employees.Until recently, most corporate training programs focused on communicating company policies, building the company’s “culture” and complying with legal mandates to provide instruction on sexual harassment, nondiscrimination and industry-specific regulatory requirements. Company leaders and promising younger executives were often given access to high-quality executive education programs.But most employees looking to upgrade their skills and qualifications had to go back to school. Those who remained on the job while attending classes part time could get up to $5,250 annually in tax-free tuition reimbursement from their employer. Most large companies have maintained such programs for decades, but less than 1 percent of the work force participates.Today, thanks to online technology, there has been stunning improvement in both the quantity and quality of learning opportunities available to employees. The largest platforms offer thousands of courses from more than 200 of the world’s best universities, as well as state-of-the-art content from top technology companies. Many Fortune 500 companies are testing the use of such courses to develop the skills of their employees, and a few have begun large-scale deployment, offering customized courses to help employees gain competency in emerging fields such as big data, machine learning, deep learning and the internet of things.Less esoteric subjects — like digital marketing, project management, and managing people and teams — have also proved popular among employers. These courses typically cost less than 10 percent of what it would cost to take the same courses in a face-to-face, on-campus setting.The tax cut has given companies an opportunity to invest in the future. So, to America’s chief executives: Don’t spend it all on buybacks and bonuses. Invest in plants, equipment and research. But the best investment you can make with that money is in your people.Richard C. Levin is the former president of Yale and the former chief executive of Coursera, an online education company, where he remains a senior adviser.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS