AdvertisementSupported byAs chairman of Phillips, Cheyenne Westphal is among the highest-ranking women in the auction world — and she certainly has the best-sounding title, even though she reports to the chief executive, Edward Dolman.Ms. Westphal, 50, joined Phillips just over a year ago after a long, successful tenure at Sotheby’s, having run that house’s contemporary art sales in Europe for more than 15 years. She presided over some acclaimed events, including “Beautiful Inside My Head Forever,” a sale that raised $200.7 million in 2008 with a slate consisting entirely of direct-from-the-studio works by Damien Hirst.A native of Baden-Baden, the German spa town, Ms. Westphal studied at St. Andrew’s in Scotland and then at the University of California, Berkeley, under the renowned art history professor Anne Wagner.Now based in London, Ms. Westphal has been infusing Phillips with new energy. Last month, the house had its record sale when 44 lots of 20th-century and contemporary work brought in $135 million on the London block. Big tickets included Picasso’s “La Dormeuse” (1932) at $57.8 million and a Matisse sculpture, “Nu Allongé I (Aurore)” (1908), at $20.5 million. The Los Angeles-based artist Mark Bradford saw a record for his work when “Helter Skelter I” (2007) brought $11.9 million.Ms. Westphal, a collector who owns works by Gerhard Richter, Hirst, Banksy and Tara Donovan, among others, spoke about glass ceilings, powerful women and what she’d do differently in her career. (This interview has been edited and condensed.)You have an august title — what are the-day-to-day responsibilities of a chairman?It’s not managerial. It’s really outward-facing. So I focus on working with clients on a global basis. That also means getting and selling pictures or works of design, or watches.I think that’s called rainmaking. And it’s global now?I do have a schedule that moves according to the art calendar. March was focused on the London sales. We’re opening a new office in Hong Kong. May and November, of course, are in New York for the sales. June in Basel for the fair and December in Miami.Do you feel like a glass-ceiling breaker?It’s interesting, because I’ve been working in this industry for a long time. I started in 1990 — I had my own glass ceilings that I broke in a way, I suppose. I started running the contemporary department at Sotheby’s in 1999, when I was still really quite young. And it felt, at the time as a woman, that I could do that. It felt very open. But I do think that it’s very nice that there’s a woman as chairman of Phillips.Is hiring other women a focus?You’re absolutely right. I work very closely with Ed Dolman on whom are we going to hire, where are gaps that we need to fill. We have quite a lot of wonderful colleagues that we’ve hired — some from Sotheby’s, some from Christie’s — with truly amazing women among them. In Belgium, we were joined recently by Marianne Hoet, who was at Christie’s. She has lived and breathed art from the moment she could talk, basically, and it’s amazing working with someone like that.You have to be working for at least five years in order to become a member. It’s a forum where you can give career advice and really engage in very interesting conversations. The first discussion that I led was, “If you could look back today, what were the three things that you would change?” That brought out a very good conversation, and the next one was on mentoring. I’m very happy to be part of it.So what would you do differently?The very first thing that I said was, “You have to remember, when I started in the art world it was 1990.” Things have changed. I might have been working in what was called a contemporary field, but I was really only working with artists that were already very established. Every work of art had to be at least 10 years old before we sold it, and I don’t think I got out enough. It took me a few more years, courtesy of Charles Saatchi and the like, to pick up on the truly contemporary scene. So my advice to myself would be: I should have been more grass-roots right at the beginning.You’re up against a famous duopoly in Christie’s and Sotheby’s. How does that change your thinking?I love that question. I genuinely think that we have a chance to make a big dent in the duopoly. We can give collectors a third option that they like. I think the time is right. We really want to be the premier auction house in all areas that have to do with the 20th and 21st century. And, when you look at certain market segments, we are world leaders. We’ve got the top worldwide market share in watches. We are also leaders in photography. The biggest financial piece is, of course, the 20th-century market, and that’s where we are putting a lot of efforts. And since 2014 our sales are up 80 percent across the company.What makes you want to collect art?That’s no small buy-in. How many Hirsts do you own?If we’re counting prints, I have more than five. Less than 10.Who else?I really, really do love Gerhard Richter. Obviously, you know, he is very expensive, but wherever I saw an opportunity, whether it’s an edition or whether it’s an overpainted postcard, I take it. I’ve got one of his wonderful 1989 souvenirs. I don’t own, and probably won’t own, a large painting. But it’s not about scale.Do you think living with art as a collector gives you a useful perspective in terms of your job?Yes. And I’m lucky that in my office I can hang works of art that are coming up for sale — I spend time with the art. I’m lucky to have something amazing with me for six or eight weeks. You get a very different sense of the work.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS