AdvertisementSupported byWhen I returned to work from maternity leave two months ago, I didn’t expect to be thrust into a story about a tidal wave of teacher walkouts across the United States.In retrospect, I shouldn’t have been surprised. I’ve been noticing for years that teachers are angry about all sorts of things: the proliferation of standardized tests and mandated curricula, demands for reform from philanthropists and policymakers who have little experience in public schools, and, of course, stagnant pay. That is certainly the story in Arizona, which has pursued decades of tax cuts and fiscal austerity.On April 10, I landed in Phoenix to cover the teacher protests in the state, in the middle of a heat wave. The next afternoon, I walked into Sunset Ridge Elementary School in Glendale; it was over 90 degrees in early spring, and this native New Yorker had forgotten to pack sunscreen and water bottles. I was exhausted. In less than 24 hours, I’d driven 140 miles to visit four schools and two large, outdoor demonstrations.But I was immediately energized when I met Lily Matos DeBlieux, the superintendent of the largely Latino Pendergast Elementary School District. Her hair was dyed fire-engine red in support of the teacher protest movement, which calls itself #RedforEd. It’s unusual to see managers support workers who are planning, essentially, to strike, but that was the case in every state I’d covered since the nationwide teacher walkout movement began. Dr. DeBlieux told me that because of low budgets she’d had to turn to private donors to support a whole host of instructional and social priorities for children.She also mentioned, almost offhandedly, that she’d hired over 50 foreign teachers, largely from the Philippines. She couldn’t recruit or retain enough Americans with the salaries she was able to offer, around $40,000. I was surprised to hear this, in part because Sunset Ridge Elementary School seemed like a great place to work, with a thriving Spanish-English dual language program and a group of dedicated, passionate colleagues. Care work, like nannying or home health care, has often been done by recent immigrants. But you don’t necessarily expect to see this sort of global labor market in the teaching profession. Many of the teachers I meet on the road attended college in their home states and work in, or very near to, the communities where they grew up.I’d heard of schools traveling out-of-state to recruit, but not about this: a pipeline of teachers from the Philippines to the American Southwest. I drew a big star in my notebook to remind myself to follow up.Mr. Soberano is just one of thousands of teachers nationwide who hold temporary cultural exchange visas and are being recruited to work in regions with teacher shortages. I found clusters of J-1 teachers in Nevada, Arizona, the Carolinas and several other states. Many go into debt paying large fees — $12,500 in Mr. Soberano’s case — to private agencies that place them in their jobs.A big part of my reporting was tracing the money Mr. Soberano spent back to two American, for-profit companies that specialize in connecting foreign teachers to schools. Those businesses say that they are performing a crucial service and that schools are too broke to pay the recruitment and legal costs themselves.It was a subject many sources found difficult to talk about, and the reporting required some patience. The companies that scout foreign teachers are eager to portray themselves as purveyors of a niche foreign exchange experience meant to promote diplomacy, but they also actively market themselves to schools facing long-term teacher shortages. Labor groups are uncomfortable with this practice, but don’t want to criticize the foreign teachers, who are sometimes union members. School administrators may feel sorry that foreign teachers pay huge fees to land their jobs — some administrators underestimated the size of those fees — but they feel they have no better option.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS