AdvertisementSupported byAn uncertain futureWith an important source of revenue down and the flow of customers flattening out, one of the biggest businesses in Georgia — its public university system — is turning to a strategy of consolidations and mergers to improve efficiency and cut costs.The universities are putting some of the resulting $24 million in savings into efforts to reduce the number of dropouts. That beefs up the bottom line, too: It’s cheaper to help a student stay in school than to recruit a new one.Dramatic changes like these are essential, Chancellor Steve Wrigley told his Board of Regents in April. “We inherited a system largely conceived in the 1960s,” Mr. Wrigley said. “But times, society and students have all changed dramatically.”That is not only true in Georgia. Other colleges and universities across the country are also responding (albeit sometimes slowly) to challenges threatening their traditional role in society if not their survival.Because of a dip in the number of 18- to 24-year-olds, among other reasons, for example, enrollment has been dropping for five years, meaning that there are about 300,000 fewer undergraduates to divvy up among America’s campuses than there used to be.To fill seats, colleges are engaged in an arms race of discounts that they increasingly cannot afford — discounts so deep that, while their sticker prices appear to be rising ahead of the inflation rate, the schools are actually seeing their net tuition revenue decline. Many small, private nonprofit colleges are giving away a record 51 percent of their tuition income in the form of discounts, according to new figures from the National Association of College and University Business Officers.All of these pressures mean something has to give, and that includes upkeep. Colleges and universities face a combined shortfall of $30 billion for needed repairs and renovations, according to the APPA, formerly the Association of Physical Plant Administrators.But in another bid to attract students, they keep building more, spending $11.6 billion last year on new construction, the private firm Dodge Data and Analytics says. That is adding not only more space the universities will have to maintain, but billions of dollars in debt on which someone will have to pay the interest.“There’s a fundamental lack of understanding about the strains that higher education is under,” said Susan Fitzgerald, who tracks them as a senior vice president at Moody’s.James Soto Antony, a professor at the Harvard Graduate School of Education who focuses on education leadership, said that people imagine that all universities look like the one where he works. “They see this $36 billion endowment and the manicured lawns and they impute that onto all colleges and universities,” Mr. Antony said. “And most of them are not like that. They are dramatically struggling for enrollment.”Here’s how thin: Thanks to rising discounts, small colleges reported an average revenue increase per freshman of just two-tenths of a percent last year, which means they lost ground when inflation is accounted for.Ken Redd, director of research and policy analysis at the business officers association, said: “Are there enough students out there? Is there enough money out there in a time of declining enrollment to support all of those schools. Based on what we see now, you’d have to say the answer is no.”Chief business officers on campuses agree with him. More than four in 10 don’t think their current financing models are sustainable. “Hearing that from the chief business officers is very telling,” Mr. Redd said.So universities and colleges are getting serious about other kinds of reforms. Some, as in Georgia, are dramatic — and controversial. Several campus mergers there were announced only days before they were voted on by the Board of Regents, without enough notice for the public to sign up to comment. A similar proposal was put on the table in April by the Connecticut State Colleges and Universities (which does not include the University of Connecticut) in the wake of an enrollment drop and state budget cuts, only to be protested by faculty and students.“Change is not easy, particularly when you’ve got institutions that have been around for 100 years” said Charlie Sutlive, vice chancellor for communications and governmental affairs at the University System of Georgia.That “is tied as directly as possible to institutional financial health,” said George L. Mehaffy, vice president for academic leadership and change at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, which is involved in the project. “If you increase the number of students you retain and graduate, it dramatically affects your bottom line.”“We know what works,” said Travis Reindl, senior communications officer at the Gates Foundation, “and we know there is a core set of diverse institutions with pockets of solutions and innovations going on, but they’ve never been brought together like this.”Richard D. Legon, president of the association, said that fixing higher education “requires a collaborative partnership that benefits from some of the creativity and ingenuity board members bring to the table, working with institutional leadership to ensure that students, who are really in a customer mode, want to shop at your place.”Not everyone is doing this work. “There are some colleges that are very realistic about the challenges they’re facing,” said Ms. Fitzgerald of Moody’s. “There are others that still have their heads in the sand and think that things are going to get better.”But the activity that is underway represents “a sea change,” Mr. Mehaffy said. “There was an era when institutions sort of just moved on. The funds were relatively good, the students were standing in line. And today’s environment is dramatically different. It is a time of enormous strains, but the good news is that it’s a moment of growing action.”Jon Marcus is the higher education editor of The Hechinger Report.AdvertisementCollapseSEE MY OPTIONS